Dev docs for testing coala change on all bears (#5978)
coala/coala: docs/Developers/Testing_coala_change_on_Bears.rst

Testing changes to coala on coala-bears
=======================================

When large changes are made to the coala core, they should be tested
on the coala-bears to confirm that they work as expected and don't
break anything on the bears' side.

You can do this by changing the coala dependency for the bears to
be the one consisting of the changes. In order to do this, you need to create

> a new branch on coala-bears, update the coala requirement to point to your

Reviewer: Changing `on coala-bears` to `on your coala-bears fork` will give contributor more information IMO

::

    $ git clone -o upstream https://github.com/coala/coala-bears

.. note::
    ``-o upstream`` sets the remote name of the original coala-bears repository
    as upstream.

Now, navigate to the directory where coala-bears is located.

::

    $ cd coala-bears

This tutorial assumes you are working on your own fork. To fork the repository,
go to the official repository of coala-bears and click on the ``Fork``
button from the website interface. To add it locally, simply run:

::

    $ git remote add myfork fork_link

where ``myfork`` is the name of your fork, and ``fork_link`` is a link to your
fork repository.

Before making any change, switch to a new branch.

::

    $ git checkout -b new_test_branch

Here ``new_test_branch`` is the name of the new branch you created. You can
use any name you want for this purpose.

.. note::
    Never make any changes on your master branch.
    Please go through our `Newcomers Guide <https://coala.io/newcomer>`_ if
    you are new to coala.

Now that you're on a new branch, you are free to make changes.

Change coala dependency in requirements.txt
-------------------------------------------

First, you need to change the coala dependency.

> Now, assuming you have made changes to coala fork on branch ``<branch-name>``,

Reviewer: `assuming that you ..` !

you can edit the coala dependency by editing requirements.txt in coala-bears.
To do this, you need to edit the line in requirements.txt corresponding to:
::

    git+https://github.com/coala/coala#egg=coala

and change it to :

::

    git+https://github.com/<your-username>/coala@<branch-name>#egg=coala

This will ensure that the coala will be installed using the source from the
branch consisting of your changes to coala.

Commit and push changes
-----------------------

You have now made the required changes to the bears repository, you are free

> to commit the changes and push the branch.

Reviewer: `push the local branch on your fork.` !

Testing changes to coala on coala-bears
=======================================

When large changes are made to the coala core, they should be tested
on the coala-bears to confirm that they work as expected and don't
break anything on the bears' side.

You can do this by changing the coala dependency for the bears to
be the one consisting of the changes. In order to do this, you need to create
a new branch on your coala-bears fork, update the coala requirement to point to
your changes and run CI on it.

Set up a new testing branch
---------------------------

Assuming you have already made changes to coala through a new branch, you can
use that branch to install coala by editing requirements.txt in coala-bears.
Let's set-up a new branch on coala-bears for these changes:

If you have not already, clone the coala-bears repository by running:

::

    $ git clone -o upstream https://github.com/coala/coala-bears

.. note::
    ``-o upstream`` sets the remote name of the original coala-bears repository
    as upstream.

Now, navigate to the directory where coala-bears is located.

::

    $ cd coala-bears

> This tutorial assumes you are working on your own fork. To fork the repository,

Reviewer 2: Change `To fork the repository` to `If you haven't done so` improves the readability.

> go to the official repository of coala-bears and click on the ``Fork``

Reviewer 2: A link here will be helpful so that you don't need to mention official repository, which sounds a bit weird - if there an unofficial one? :P

Testing changes to coala on coala-bears
=======================================

When large changes are made to the coala core, they should be tested
on the coala-bears to confirm that they work as expected and don't
break anything on the bears' side.

> There was an attempt to automate this through

Reviewer 3: this is not helpful to the reader.

`#4424 <https://github.com/coala/coala/pull/4424>`_ which used to depend
upon docker image, but unfortunately the image breaks stuff for now.

But we can still do it manually, by changing the coala dependency for the
bears to be the one consisting of the changes made. For this, we need to create

> a new branch on coala-bears, update the coala requirement to point to our

Reviewer: `branch` -> `local branch`
and shouldn't it be `point to your changes` ?

> changes and run it on CI.

Reviewer: Also, I think it should be `run CI on it` !

Set up a new testing branch
---------------------------

Assuming we have already made changes to coala through a new branch, we can
use this branch to install coala instead of master by editing requirements.txt
in coala-bears. Let's set-up a new branch on coala-bears for these
changes.

If you have not already, clone your fork by running:

::

>     $ git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/coala-bears

Reviewer 3: this contradicts the setup at http://api.coala.io/en/latest/Developers/Newcomers_Guide.html

clone main repo, add remote for fork.

i.e. remote `origin` should point to the central repo.

Make sure that you replace <your-username> with your Github username.

Now, navigate to the directory where coala-bears is located.

::

    $ cd coala-bears

Before making any change, switch to a new branch.

::

    $ git checkout -b new_test_branch

.. note::
    Never make any changes on your master branch.
    See `Git Tutorial <https://coala.io/gitbasics>`_ for more info.

Now that you're on a new branch, you are free to make changes.

Change coala dependency in requirements.txt
-------------------------------------------

First, we need to change the coala dependency.

Now, assuming you have made changes to coala fork on branch <branch-name>, you

> can edit the coala dependency by changing the corresponding line to:

Reviewer 3: " changing the corresponding line " -- you just 80% of your readers here.

which file are they changing?  I know you wrote it in the section title, but the lazy reader didnt understand that.

"corresponding" - which line?  the reader wont guess it.  You need to be explicit. Especially since the file says it is a generated file, and to edit a different file.

::

    git+https://github.com/<your-username>/coala@<branch-name>#egg=coala

Apply changes on coala-bears
----------------------------

> Since the current changes aren't used anywhere on the bears, you need to

Reviewer 3: Im not sure what "current changes" here are.

In bears the process should be:

1. edit requirements.txt to point to custom branch on fork
2. Create branch.  Suggest a branch name
3. Commit
4. Enable CI if not enabled
5. Push

> Testing coala change on coala-bears

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Testing changes to coala on coala-bears
```

===================================

When large changes are made to the coala core, they should be tested
on the coala-bears to confirm that they work as expected and don't
break anything on the bears' side.

There was an attempt to automate this through

> https://github.com/coala/coala/pull/4424 which used to depend upon docker

Reviewer 4: Change the raw link to an anchor tag?

> https://github.com/coala/coala/pull/4424 which used to depend upon docker

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
https://github.com/coala/coala/pull/4424 which depends on the docker
```

image, but unfortunately the image breaks stuff for now.

But we can still do it manually, by changing the coala dependency for the

> bears to be the one consisting of the changes made For which we need to create

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
bears to be the one consisting of the changes made. For this, we need to create
```

> a new branch on coala-bears, edit the requirements and run it on CI.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
a new branch on coala-bears, update the coala requirement to point to our changes and run it on CI.
```

> Set-up a new testing branch

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Setup a new testing branch
```

---------------------------

Assuming we have already made changes to coala through a new branch, we can

> use the branch to install coala instead of master by editing requirements.txt

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
use this branch to install coala instead of master by editing requirements.txt
```

> file in coala-bears. So, lets set-up a new branch on coala-bears for these

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
in coala-bears. Let's set up a new branch on coala-bears for these
```

changes.

If you have not already, clone your fork by running:

::

    $ git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/coala-bears

> Make sure that you replace <your-username> with your corresponding github

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Make sure that you replace <your-username> with your GitHub
```

username.

Now, navigate to the directory where coala-bears is located.

::

    $ cd coala-bears

> Before making any change, switch to a new branch (other than master).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Before making any change, switch to a new branch.
```
master isn't a new branch :p

::

    $ git checkout -b new_test_branch

.. note::
    Never make any changes on your master branch.
    See `Git Tutorial <https://coala.io/gitbasics>`_ for more info.

> Now you've done that, you are free to make changes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Now that you're on a new branch, you are free to make changes.
```

Change coala dependency in requirements.txt
-------------------------------------------

> First thing we need is to change the coala dependency.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
First, we need to change the coala dependency.
```

> Now assuming you have made changes to coala fork on branch <branch-name>, you

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Now, assuming you have made changes to coala fork on branch <branch-name>, you
```

can edit the coala dependency by changing the corresponding line to:

::

    git+https://github.com/<your-username>/coala@<branch-name>#egg=coala

> Set-up CI to run on your branch

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Set up CI to run on your branch
```

-------------------------------

> Since you need the tests to be ran on CI, set it up by modifying respective

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Since you need the tests to be run on CI, set it up by modifying the respective
```

configuration files. You can have a look at our
`CI Tutorial <https://api.coala.io/en/latest/Developers/Adding_CI.html>`_.
for more info.

For example, to run `travis-ci <https://travis-ci.org/>`_ on your
branch you could modify .travis.yml file. At the end of the file, you'll find

> branch specification where you could white-list your branch name. So you should

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the branch specification where you can whitelist your branch name. So you should
```

have the change as following:

::

    branches:
      only:
        - new_test_branch

> Simillarly, you can make changes to appveyor.yml file to run tests on AppveyorCI

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Similarly, you can make changes to the appveyor.yml file to run tests on AppveyorCI
```

and circle.yml for CircleCI. Now you can add, commit and push changes to

> your new_test_branch. You can see the log on

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
new_test_branch. You can see the log on
```
